# My Markdown

Wordpress plugin to enable Markdown Editor as in Stack Overflow with a customizable side preview  

## Existent posts

Auto-convert to Markdown using LGPL PHP library [Markdownify](https://github.com/Elephant418/Markdownify).

## Editor

Toolbar and shortcut keys using [Pagedown](https://github.com/balpha/pagedown) and [Pagedown-Extra](https://github.com/jmcmanus/pagedown-extra)
similar to Stack Overflow.

## HTML generation

Conversion to HTML using MIT JavaScript library [Remarkable](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/remarkable) and custom plugin. 

Generated HTML is sent to server, so no dubious conversion.

## Preview

Changes are incrementally applied to preview window using LGPL JavaScript library [diffDOM](https://github.com/fiduswriter/diffDOM),
highlighting elements affected by each change in Markdown code.

Preview is a Web Component with Shadow Dom isolation, providing styling isolation from the Admin page.

In order to customize preview Style, just add to current template the corresponding JavaScript and CSS files as follows:

- `/mmd-preview-editor.css`
- `/mmd-preview-editor.js`

Those files will be automatically included in the Preview Component.

## Disabling editor

Disable editor for specific posts and pages adding a custom field named `my-markdown-disabled` with some value like `1` or `true`.

## Extending

You can listen to editor events using JavaScript event API. 

### Preview updated

Fires when preview window is updated

Event: `previewComponentUpdated`

Parameters: 
- `element`: preview container
- `content`: new content

```
this.dispatchEvent(new CustomEvent('previewComponentUpdated', { detail: {
    'element': this.shadowRoot.querySelector('.mmd-preview-content'),
    'content': content
}}));

//...


editorPreview.addEventListener('previewComponentUpdated', function(e) {
    //do thing
});
```

### Changed element

Fires whenever there is a element that was identified to have been changed and has `mmd-changed` css class in it.

Event: `previewComponentElementChanged`

Parameters:
- `element`: changed element
                    
```                    
var changedElement = this.shadowRoot.querySelector('.mmd-changed');
if (changedElement) {
    this.dispatchEvent(new CustomEvent('previewComponentElementChanged', { detail: {
        'element': changedElement
    }}));
}
```

### Editor was changed

Fires when source editor content has changed.

Event: `markdownEditorContentChanged`

Parameters:
- `html`: html generated by the converter
- `text`: Markdown text from editor

```
panels.input.dispatchEvent(new CustomEvent('markdownEditorContentChanged', { detail : {
    html: converter.makeHtml(text),
    text: text
}}));
```

# TODO

- Configure project properly to minify code
- Make it possible to extend markdown without changing the plugin (?) 

